Dailymotion
Junior Business Data Analyst (All Genders) 
Issy-les-Moulineaux, Île-de-France, France
https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/4226516621/?refId=ded0ae3a-0574-4ca4-92df-f30477dd4470&trackingId=P%2Fo3mfAFSASLjtUU%2BVa0RA%3D%3D

5 compétences sur votre profil
Analyse des données, Analytique de données, Communication, Compétences analytiques et Statistiques, Exigences commerciales, Extract, Transform, Load (ETL), Indicateurs clés de performance

Dailymotion is more than a video platform; it’s a visual conversation in motion, based on a unique algorithm designed to broaden users’ horizons. Dailymotion brings nuance to the debates that animate young people and puts listening, discovery, and kindness back at the heart of interactions to help build a better and safer Internet.



Dailymotion is also “Dailymotion Pro,” a video hosting and broadcasting solution for professionals in all industries, and “Dailymotion Advertising,” a powerful, proprietary video advertising stack offering a high-quality, secure environment for brands.

Our team is made up of 400 people in France, New York, and Singapore, all united by the same ambition: to visibly shake up the global video platform ecosystem.




Job Description

As a Junior Business Data Analyst, you will be at the core of Dailymotion’s data-driven strategy. You will be part of the Operational Insights team, whose mission is to empower sales, ad-operations and publisher teams with right insights and assets to make data-driven decisions and contribute to Dailymotion’s growth.


Under the supervision of a senior business data analyst, your main goal is to provide insights to publisher success, business and ad-operations teams to optimize the monetization of Dailymotion’s large network of publishers.


Monitor frequently the monetization KPIs of top publishers and enhance team responsiveness to quickly identify and address issues.
Build analytical assets (dashboards, datamarts,…) to empower the publisher success team with self-serving tools and ensure adoption and appropriate usage of the assets.
Perform advanced data analysis to provide actionable insights to the Publisher Success team, supporting their efforts in optimizing publisher monetization and retention.
Provide comprehensive analysis to understand the landscape of our publishers, monitor and forecast the evolution of publishers’ supply.
Partner with data engineering/data product team to ensure the accurate tracking of publishers related data

Qualifications

1+ years of quantitative/statistical analysis experience (data analyst, business analyst…); Experience in ads industry highly appreciated but not required
1+ years experience with SQL and a data visualization tool like Looker, Datastudio, Tableau… Python is a plus
Excellent analytical skills : Capacity to understand the business needs, leverage our large and complex dataset to find the appropriate insights and recommendations to solve the business needs
Excellent communication skills : Ability to explain and synthetize analytics work to large audience, ability to foster strong relationships with peers and stakeholders, ability to advocate your findings and influence business decisions
Great sense of ownership : Capacity to be proactive and autonomous with a willingness to get things done
Adaptability and reactivity to shifting priorities and deadlines in a constantly evolving ad-tech industry
Fluent English (written and oral)

Additional Information

Location: Issy-les-Moulineaux, France
Type of contract: Permanent
Start Date: ASAP
🔍Want to learn more about us:


Dailymotion.com


Dailymotion Advertising


New-York office - BuiltIn


Offices in France - Welcome to the Jungle


Our articles 


Dailymotion is proud to be an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer. We value inclusion and we want you to help us thrive for a more diverse community.

All our job offers are open to people with disabilities or impairments, and we actively encourage everyone to apply. If you have any accessibility needs or require any accommodations for the hiring process, please let us know in advance so that we can make any necessary arrangements.


🏡Hybrid Work Framework (4 types of remote work : Full office /Flex office (1/2 days remote) / Flex remote (1/2 days at the office) / Full remote + ability to work 3 month abroad)


💰 Saving Plan Vivendi 


🍼 Paternity leave or Coparental leave extended 


🕶️ Living Employee Culture (Events / Trainings / Partys / All hands / Dailymotion tradition…) 


🚀 Career development support (training / internal mobility / compensation cycle / 360 quarter feedback review …)


🏥 High-end Health Insurance and Personal Services Vouchers (CESU)


⛱️ Paid Time off – RTT and Saving time plan (CET)


✅ Meal Vouchers – Public Transport and Bike refund 


🎡 European Economic and Social Committee (sport membership/cinemas vouchers/gift vouchers/discount) 


⚽Fitness Subscription thanks to our partnership with Gimlyb